{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The hardest project that I've worked on was probably an evaluation of the effectiveness and capabilities of a specific signal collection platform (aircraft) to gauge if decommissioning the aircraft would have an adverse affect on US intelligence capabilities.  Some of the factors that made this a challenging project were the short and uncertain timeframe (originally one month, cut to two weeks), misunderstanding of the underlying technology by senior leaders (comparing apples to oranges, despite our protests), and challenging data landscape (multiple data silos and data owners). The results of our analysis informed decision-making on the continuation of a multi-billion dollar world-wide reconnaissance aircraft project.\
\
While working with US Army Cyber Command I helped gain visibility of the devices connected to the Army unclassified network. Army leadership wanted to know - How many devices are there on the Army network? - and wanted to know as soon as possible. We first looked at where we would get the data, the Army was creating a central database, but all the individual data sources were using a multitude of different logging software, formats, naming conventions, and reporting intervals (despite our published standards).  We developed a fast, ugly, and brittle method using python to deduplicate and organize the disparate data sources in the short-term in order to get an answer to leadership, while the long-term reliable pipelines could be developed. I developed a flexible custom visualization to allow analysts and leadership to quickly get details and metrics from the vast amounts of data that we were compiling.  We created methodologies to reduce the known-unknowns(networks and devices we knew existed, but didn't have visibility on), unknown-knowns(devices we could see, but didn't know what they were or who they belonged to) and work toward reducing the unknown-unknowns(devices we didn't know we were missing). We presented and demoed our makeshift solution and caveated answer to Army Cyber leadership along with the blueprint and groundwork for the long-term, permanent solution.\
\
I worked as a data scientist and analytic developer in Counter-Terrorism at the National Security Agency (Sentar). While in that role I developed tradecraft and tools (collecting, cleaning, parsing, and analyzing) for other analysts on very quick timelines with life and death stakes.  In that role I had to learn quickly from my peers (if they had related experience), from documentation and publications (if industry or academia had), or trial and error (if it was a novel solution).\
\
I have always wanted to do the most good with my work and that idea has guided me, so far, to work with the federal government. First as a Soldier in the Army, then with the National Security Agency, and most recently with the Army again. After working with the federal government for over ten years I've decided that I can do more good working with local government.}